src/chapter1/challenges.md, before:

# Challenges

As you progress through each chapter you will be given a small set of challenges to complete. In order to complete the challenges there is a complementary GitHub template repository found on the Monash DeepNeuron GitHub organisation called [HPC Training Challenges](https://github.com/MonashDeepNeuron/HPC-Training-Challenges). As a template you are able to create your own copy of the repository and complete the challenges completely independent of the other recruits.

## Setting Up Challenges Repository

To get setup:

- Click the link above to go to the repository on GitHub.
- Click 'Use this template' button (green) and select 'Create a new repository'.
- Give it a name and make sure it is private.
- Click 'Create repository from template'.
- This will open the page for the repository. Click the '<> Code' button (green), make sure you are in the HTTPS tab and copy the link.
- Open a terminal in your dev directory.
- Run:

```sh
git clone <repo-link>
code <repo-name>
```

And thats it, you can now edit any of the files and complete the challenges. When you want to save your changes to GitHub simply add them and push to them to GitHub.

```sh
git add .  # Add any untracked or modified files
git push origin  # Push to GitHub
```

> **Note:** Look at the README.md of the repo for the for more instructions.

## Challenges Repository

The challenges repository is broken down into different directories for each chapter. For each chapter their will be a series of additional directories corresponding to the specific challenge. These will contain any and all the resources needed for the challenge except programs that you are required to complete.

<!-- For some of the challenges, GitHub will have some automatic tests that run when you push your changes back up to GitHub. -->

Commit message:

Clarified copying of the challenges repo (#27).

src/chapter1/challenges.md, after:

# Challenges

As you progress through each chapter you will be given a small set of challenges to complete. In order to complete the challenges there is a complementary GitHub template repository found on the Monash DeepNeuron GitHub organisation called [HPC Training Challenges](https://github.com/MonashDeepNeuron/HPC-Training-Challenges). As a template you are able to create your own copy of the repository and complete the challenges completely independent of the other recruits.

## Setting Up Challenges Repository

To get setup:

- Click the link above to go to the repository on GitHub.
- Click 'Use this template' button (green) and select 'Create a new repository'.
- Give it a name and make sure it is private.
- Ensure you are copying it to your personal account and not the Monash DeepNeuron organisation. There will be a dropdown next to where you give the repo a name from which you can select your account.
- Click 'Create repository from template'.
- This will open the page for the repository. Click the '<> Code' button (green), make sure you are in the HTTPS tab and copy the link.
- Open a terminal in your dev directory.
- Run:

```sh
git clone <repo-link>
code <repo-name>
```

And thats it, you can now edit any of the files and complete the challenges. When you want to save your changes to GitHub simply add them and push to them to GitHub.

```sh
git add .  # Add any untracked or modified files
git push origin  # Push to GitHub
```

> **Note:** Look at the README.md of the repo for the for more instructions.

## Challenges Repository

The challenges repository is broken down into different directories for each chapter. For each chapter their will be a series of additional directories corresponding to the specific challenge. These will contain any and all the resources needed for the challenge except programs that you are required to complete.

<!-- For some of the challenges, GitHub will have some automatic tests that run when you push your changes back up to GitHub. -->
