src/chapter6/challenges.md, before:

# Apache Spark Challenges

## Overview

- [Apache Spark Challenges](#apache-spark-challenges)
  - [Overview](#overview)
  - [Task 1 - Big Data Problem: Token Counting](#task-1---big-data-problem-token-counting)
  - [Task 2 - Cluster Set-up Bash Scripts](#task-2---cluster-set-up-bash-scripts)
  - [Task 3 - Spark and SLURM](#task-3---spark-and-slurm)
  - [Task 4 - Data Processing](#task-4---data-processing)
  - [Task 5 - Spark Machine Learning](#task-5---spark-machine-learning)

> Note: Tasks 1, 2, and 3 closely resemble a **typical workflow** when working with Apache Spark:
> - **Step 1**: Interactively work with a small sample of the problem
> - **Step 2**: Solve and optimize the sample problem
> - **Step 3**: Submit the entire larger problem as a batch job
> - **Step 4**: Analyze the result and, if necessary, repeat steps 1 to 4
> 
> You should employ this workflow into task 4 and task 5

## Task 1 - Big Data Problem: Token Counting

Given a string of tokens, count the number of times each token apprears. You should do this task in an interactive JupyterLab notebook connecting to a Spark cluster.

> This is an cananical problem of big data processing, and often served as an example for [MapReduce Programming Model](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/MapReduce).

## Task 2 - Cluster Set-up Bash Scripts

Write Bash Scripts to streamline the process of installing Spark and running the cluster.

## Task 3 - Spark and SLURM

Submit [task 1](#task-1---calculate-pi-using-monte-carlo-algorithm-again) (you will need to convert the notebook into a Python file) as a Spark job using SLURM. This may include wrapping the following steps into 1 single SLURM script:
- Set-up a Spark Cluster (which should be similar to [task 2](#task-2---cluster-set-up-bash-scripts))
- Submit the job to the cluster using `spark-submit`

## Task 4 - Data Processing

In this task, we will start working with dataframe and try to process a given raw dataset.
- TODO 1
- TODO 2
- TODO 3

> The dataset, at around ~100MB, is considered small and not well-suited for Spark utilization (opting for Pandas might be more efficient). Nevertheless, working with this dataset serves as an exercise to understand more about Spark concepts and its capabilities.

## Task 5 - Spark Machine Learning

We will use the data from task 4 to build a intro-to-ML Machine Learning model, [Linear Regression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Linear_regression), with [MLlib](https://spark.apache.org/mllib/)

Commit message:

Finished Challenges subchapter; Added shared variables contents; Added Spark SQL contents

src/chapter6/challenges.md, after:

# Apache Spark Challenges

## Overview

- [Apache Spark Challenges](#apache-spark-challenges)
  - [Overview](#overview)
  - [Task 1 - Classic Distributed Problem: Token Counting](#task-1---classic-distributed-problem-token-counting)
  - [Task 2 - Cluster Set-up Bash Scripts](#task-2---cluster-set-up-bash-scripts)
  - [Task 3 - Spark and SLURM](#task-3---spark-and-slurm)
  - [Task 4 - Data Processing](#task-4---data-processing)
  - [Task 5 - Spark Machine Learning](#task-5---spark-machine-learning)

> Note: Tasks 1, 2, and 3 closely resemble a **typical workflow** when working with Apache Spark:
> - **Step 1**: Interactively work with a small sample of the problem
> - **Step 2**: Solve and optimize the sample problem
> - **Step 3**: Submit the entire larger problem as a batch job
> - **Step 4**: Analyze the result and, if necessary, repeat steps 1 to 4
> 
> You should employ this workflow into task 4 and task 5

## Task 1 - Classic Distributed Problem: Token Counting

Given a string of tokens, count the number of times each token apprears. You should do this task in an interactive JupyterLab notebook connecting to a Spark cluster. This is a cananical problem of distributed data processing, and often served as an example for [MapReduce Programming Model](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/MapReduce).

> Hint: Have a look at [map()](https://spark.apache.org/docs/latest/api/python/reference/api/pyspark.RDD.map.html) and [reduceByKey()](https://spark.apache.org/docs/latest/api/python/reference/api/pyspark.RDD.reduceByKey.html)

## Task 2 - Cluster Set-up Bash Scripts

Write Bash Scripts to streamline the process of installing Spark and running the cluster.
> Hint: Try to combine the [subchapter: set up](./set-up.md)

## Task 3 - Spark and SLURM

Submit [task 1](#task-1---calculate-pi-using-monte-carlo-algorithm-again) (you will need to convert the notebook into a Python file) as a Spark job using SLURM. This may include wrapping the following steps into 1 single SLURM script:
- Set-up a Spark Cluster (which should be similar to [task 2](#task-2---cluster-set-up-bash-scripts))
- Submit the job to the cluster using `spark-submit`
> Hint: Try to combine [Task 2](#task-2---cluster-set-up-bash-scripts) and [subchapter: job batching](./job-batching.md)

## Task 4 - Data Processing

In this task, we will start working witha dataframe and try to process a given real-world dataset.

> The dataset, at around ~100MB, is considered small and not well-suited for Spark utilization (opting for Pandas might be more efficient). Nevertheless, working with this dataset serves as an exercise to understand more about Spark concepts and its capabilities.

## Task 5 - Spark Machine Learning

We will use the data from task 4 to build an intro-to-Machine-Learning model, [Linear Regression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Linear_regression), with [MLlib](https://spark.apache.org/mllib/)
